From: gmaxwell@gmail.com (Gregory Maxwell)
Date: Wed, 13 Mar 2013 08:18:36 -0700
Subject: [Bitcoin-development] 0.8.1 ideas
In-Reply-To: <20130313150501.GA14067@savin>
References: <201303131256.30144.luke@dashjr.org> <20130313150501.GA14067@savin>
Message-ID: <CAAS2fgT13KOu59O9u+ouQvo9BNUL-0EMeK1i2C980VpdQ41Pbw@mail.gmail.com>

On Wed, Mar 13, 2013 at 8:05 AM, Peter Todd <pete at petertodd.org> wrote:
> If we're going to consider doing this, at minimum we need to also

I beg people to not derail discussion about fixing things with
discussion of other controversial changes.

Luke-jr, any chance in getting you to revise your proposal to narrow
the scope to things that don't need serious debate?


