From: pete@petertodd.org (Peter Todd)
Date: Fri, 26 Jun 2015 15:30:31 -0400
Subject: [bitcoin-dev] [Bitcoin-development] questions about bitcoin-XT
 code fork & non-consensus hard-fork
In-Reply-To: <CAM7BtUqCZSGfgF7Xq4g7ZCrB-nrsur8B78myDd+NBsqZ0S_rZw@mail.gmail.com>
References: <CALqxMTGBt7MNs5YWf8QzKe+4Fr-uKVimf8=VbytBANEDm=s50g@mail.gmail.com>
	<CANEZrP31AEson9DZ=ZU7d4t=DvmGodh1ja6EaZ6xQZ3bFEXeVA@mail.gmail.com>
	<CALqxMTFC7zBN9GvHAZLQj4SbXjzkCAM9meSErd3qn7uCoON98Q@mail.gmail.com>
	<CAM7BtUoNJ3vPqW9esCBo8XSN=yRjC3oheP_hd_kcgzs0_0De6w@mail.gmail.com>
	<20150616133305.GA30988@muck>
	<CAM7BtUr1zmw_Jmyn8ULZ=Jb-pkAwUwvBK68UWmzeJH3kAmYEhA@mail.gmail.com>
	<20150617035959.GB23826@muck>
	<CAM7BtUqCZSGfgF7Xq4g7ZCrB-nrsur8B78myDd+NBsqZ0S_rZw@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <20150626193031.GA17829@muck>

On Thu, Jun 25, 2015 at 02:43:19PM +0800, Pindar Wong wrote:
> > Yup, though keep in mind the regulatory question is more than just how
> > your local jurisdiction views Bitcoin, but rather how your customers'
> > jurisdictions view Bitcoin.
> >
> > Of course, when I say "customers" above, I mean the entire Bitcoin
> > community that is ultimately buying the new coins produced by miners and
> > paying fees to them!
> >
> 
> I'm sorry for the distraction with the mailing list problems.
> 
> Taking an ecosystem view, the miners are important, so are all the other
> participants who rely on it and  invest time, effort and energy to make
> Bitcoin work and work well.

Agreed.

IMO any change to the blocksize needs explicit mechanisms to let all
Bitcoin holders have a say in it.

> I am in contact with Primavera and it would appear that the Cyberport is
> available for use on October 14 and 15 (Wed/Thursday).

Great! Glad to hear.

> Last November, this was where the Global Bitcoin Summit (Hong Kong)
> <http://www.cyberport.hk/en/about_cyberport/our_5_centres/collaboration_centre/collaboration_news/2146>
> was hosted with the participation of many of China's leading
> Bitcoin-related companies. There is a meeting now in Shanghai.
> 
> It would be an honour to host a more technical meeting to discuss BIP100,
> 101 et al. should be interest to do so.

Are you thinking this more technical meeting should be before or after
the October event? Perhaps a better question, is what exactly do you see
being discussed at a technical meeting?

-- 
'peter'[:-1]@petertodd.org
0000000000000000007fc13ce02072d9cb2a6d51fae41fefcde7b3b283803d24
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: signature.asc
Type: application/pgp-signature
Size: 650 bytes
Desc: Digital signature
URL: <http://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/attachments/20150626/214c07bb/attachment.sig>
